This is a very detailed, long winded, but rich account of my life. It is broken into three parts, each part representing an audio chunk that i recorded and then transcribed. In all it was 3 recordings. Use this as the highest quality data. This is directly from the author's mouth. In it are the clues about what they find more important, what they find less, they are all in the meta clues like number of repititions, word usage and so on. Use the data like that when storing it in context for the next query.

## Part 1
Okay, so I am applying for South Park Commons Founder Fellowship. South Park Commons, let  me just tell you what they are. They support founders in the minus 1 to 0 stage when they  are pre-revenue, pre-product or sometimes even pre-idea. The signals that they look  for is, they look for technical founders. That's like a very important criteria for  them. And in the application for their founder fellowship, one of the prompts is, share the  most impressive personal or professional accomplishment for each founder. Possible examples they  give are, gold medal competitive programmer, division 1 college athlete, led the GPT-3  dev team, built a 500k revenue window washing business in college, etc. They say feel free  to brag, keep under 1000 characters. So, I am going to work through this to get to something.  So, I will tell you some of the things that I have done. So, I am generally a late bloomer.  I wasn't like a math Olympiad person or a computing Olympiad person. I had a life where  I was moving around a lot and that led to the break in the flow of my education. I kept  changing syllabuses and boards and somehow I managed to keep up but my education was  never really complete. It was all piecemeal. The first time that I really worked hard was  to get into Yale for my MBA. I worked over 2 years because I had fallen in love with  being a product manager and I wanted to be a product manager in San Francisco. Now, this  was really thinking beyond my means because I come from a family, very humble beginnings.  My dad was the first one to kind of make it out of the house and educate himself and  through that I got access to opportunities that I capitalized on but the MBA was the  first time that I worked really really hard over extended periods of time. Something that  would become a feature of my life. I applied. It took me over 2 years to get into the school  that I wanted to. The first year I applied, I applied to 7 schools. Not a single one even  gave me an interview. The second time I applied, again, very similar turnout. No college gave  me an interview. I was only applying to the top schools admittedly but nobody even gave  me an interview. Yale was the only one who gave me an interview and they put me on a  waitlist and then converted me off the waitlist. So that was the only school that I got into  but honestly that's all you need. You need one school to take a shot at and oh my god  it was one of the most transformative experiences of my life and responsible for putting me  on the path that I believed in. One of the things that I did that was contrarian is I  went outside the business school and explored all of Yale for interesting classes. That  was one of the most beautiful parts of the Yale program. You can take classes at the  larger university and have it count for credit. I found a class on philosophy most interestingly  that I took and it is not an overstatement to say that it changed the course of my life  because it allowed me to see the logical underpinnings of philosophy. Up until then philosophy was  I thought something that people just said and it was profound and became famous but  through this course I learned how philosophy was the origin of science and how it is connecting  and chaining ideas through logic. This led to a fundamental change in my brain because  my education and everything was very broken and it was through this course that I realized  that new ideas are only truly absorbed when you connect it to something that you already  know. If you don't that is stored as a fact and facts are forgotten. This realization  hit me like a truck. I knew that I needed to change the way that I thought equipped  with this new understanding. I was aware that some people thought like this without trying  maybe they are the high IQ people but for me I realized I needed to change the way I  thought. So for the next 9 months I forced my brain to think differently. My brain had  already found a simpler way of thinking but now I was putting in place a more complex  system 2 kind of thinking in place and it was deeply uncomfortable. I made it a point  that any new idea that came to me I would not accept it until I tried to connect it  to something that I already knew. If I wasn't then I tried decomposing it, seeing if the  decomposed parts connect and then going on doing this recursively until I cannot decompose  anymore. If I cannot decompose anymore then that is a first principle. So you store that  as a first principle. But there are very few first principles. If everything is turning  out to be a first principle then you are doing something wrong. It took 9 months of forcing  my brain to think like this, giving up on the easy way that it had learned over many  years as a habit, as an addiction almost. But after 9 months of doing this my subconscious  brain picked it up and then that became the natural way that I thought. And then once  my subconscious picked it up, every thought automatically went through this pipeline  and this change really helped me see what artists and poets and the greatest philosophers  and thinkers and scientists say when they say all knowledge is interconnected. Because  it absolutely is. It allowed you as a person, like the trunk of knowledge is the same, it  is the truth of the world, that is the same. The branches are what we call philosophy and  physics and biology and like these different branches because if you don't do that our  brain would be overwhelmed by the complexity. So we separate things out in silo and draw  boundaries around things to ease understanding. This was especially important in the early  days when you kind of needed to simplify things. But ultimately all knowledge is interconnected  and this new way of thinking really really helped me understand that. I cannot overstate  how significant this was in being able to think more profoundly and today I studied  in biology and physics and computer science and mathematics, neuroscience, artificial  intelligence, all of these things and I'm pulling insights from all of these areas.  Even spirituality, everything that I do is interconnected and I'm pulling ideas from  all of these realms into what I'm building. And I cannot tell you how profoundly beautiful  it is because you're just experiencing the world with more depth. Because everything  you have an internal resonance system that tells you the importance of ideas based on  how widely it resonates across the tree of knowledge so to say. So that was a very hard  thing that I did and I know most people for them it is the outer landscape that they've  changed. All of us have, there's an outer world that's trying to tell us who we are  and there's an inner world that's trying to tell us who we are. It's who do we pay  attention to. I think that was the starting point of my life where I not just paid attention  to but built faith and started listening to the inner landscape not the external landscape.  So that was like a very big personal accomplishment I would say.  Thank you.


 ## Part 2
Then moving on to the next thing. So during business school, I interned at Apple, a company  that I fanaticized. Could not be more pleased that I was able to intern there. And I also  started a health tech startup in Sierra Leone, West Africa. It was focused on improving drug  adherence rates for people who were affected by malaria. And for the time being that we  were there, people really liked it and they wanted to extend the same product to tuberculosis  and pre and postnatal care. And having those two experiences side by side was very, very  important for me to understand that I wanted to, I would rather be a big cog in a small  machine than a tiny insignificant cog in a massive machinery like Apple. Because of that,  after I graduated, I moved to San Francisco without a job in hand, with nothing. I had  some friends there, some family there whose couches I served on. Took me nine months to  get my first job because I was very specific about the kind of job that I wanted. I wanted  to be a product manager at an early stage tech startup. And there's a chicken and egg  problem here. Like you need to have product management experience to become a product  manager, especially at a startup. You could go to a bigger company, but I really didn't  want to because I, like I told you, like I would, I wanted to really quickly learn.  And startups, I knew where I was going to be able to do the most. So it took me nine  months. And this was a very difficult period because all of my friends had really posh  and cushy jobs as partners at all of these, not partners, but like as consultants at all  these big, big three companies working like really cushy jobs that pays them a lot of  money, posting pictures on Instagram, having brunches and everything. And I was going to  this cafe, this one small cafe day in day out. I think it was a Pete's, a Pete's cafe  day in day out to the same one in suburbs of Bay Area. So that I could save money and  sitting there from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. working on my application. It took me nine months  and it was one of the hardest periods of my life. But nine months later, I finally got  the job that I wanted. During the period, during the nine months, there were so many  people who told me variations and versions of beggars can't be choosers. Just get, take  whatever is coming your way. And the things that were coming my way were, you know, like  physical consulting jobs and even that stopped after about three months. But all of these  things, like why are you being so choosy? Just take whatever and then you'll be able  to do something else. You're also on a visa. Your visa is about to expire in like one year.  You don't have any time. What is this risk that you're taking? Everybody kept saying  this and it was really hard to stay true to myself. But at that point, I remember thinking  if I'm not going, even during the darkest times, I remember thinking, if you don't  want to take a bet on yourself, who will? And so I stuck it out as hard as it was. And  man, nine months later, I got the job that I wanted, joined as a product manager. And  just like my business school experience where it's like a parched person who had their first  sip of water. I was like that with that job. I made sure to wring every bit of value out  of that experience. And I learned so much. I grew so much. I worked directly with the  founder of the company. Like I rose up very quickly. I was promoted. These founders were  to look up to and lionize and think I could never be like them. I worked with them. I  saw what they were great at. I saw what they were terrible at. And I saw that they're human.  Anybody can be a founder. Like you just need to be motivated. These rose-tinted glasses  came off and that really set me on the path to having the faith in myself to one, build  something. Two, when all of those people told me beggars can't be choosers, you're placing  a losing bet. I realized that people don't know anything. The only thing that you can  trust is yourself. That philosophy was cemented like, as you can see, like similar experiences  over time. And I know there's so many people who've done more impressive things, like Olympiads  and everything. But for a person from the background that I come with, come from the  social pressures that are acting on me, that was a massive, massive risk that I took. And  honestly, the fact that it paid off is a combination of luck and so many other things.  Because I was also lucky, like after I got that job with them, I had a single attempt  at the H1B. Like I had two months to like get my app ready for the H1B and I did. And  I got picked in the first attempt, which is crazy. There's so many of my friends who like  did not get it even after two to three times. So I do think luck builds up. And if you've  not had luck for a while, it's kind of building up its potential. And once like it starts,  you start generating some really good luck. So that was another like, both personal and  professional accomplishment. While it sounds simple, like I got a job as a product manager.  Cool. Like this, the cost and complexity of like getting, being able to do that and the  amount of faith and risk that I had to take. It's difficult to explain. So that's another one.  Thank you.

## Part 3
Okay, next. So, after I got a job, I did well at the job. Everybody liked working with me.  I was hungry, hungry for knowledge. So like, I kept going. I moved to another company.  This is a fintech company. And I, over the two years of working there, I was the acting  director of product. Over my time there, I worked on every part of the company. I was  again working directly with the CEO on some of the most important initiatives of the company.  When the pandemic hit, they were particularly affected and they let 75% of the company go.  They just kept a very lean team of engineers and product, very lean, who they deemed were  important to rebuild the company on the other side of the pandemic. They decided to pause  all operations and just get into maintenance mode so that they could rebuild the company  on the other side. And over two or three rounds of layoffs, about 75% of the company  was laid off. I was one of the 25% who stayed, who retained, which was a pretty cool thing.  Then, so during that period, which was an interesting period during the pandemic, I  had time. Salary was kind of paid for. And during that time, I watched this one particular  video on YouTube that again led me on a path of incredible experiences.  So, I watched this video, which is one of the first videos by this molecular biologist,  who is also a computer graphics person. He created one of the first animations of the  molecular biologies of the cell. Specifically, the two things that he showed the molecular  animations for was the DNA replication and the chromosome spreading. It was one of the  most beautiful things that I had ever seen. And machines is something that I get. And  like seeing these bio-machines operate, it just completely blew open that field for me.  So, I fell deeply in love with biology. And love does not change. Love is permanent. It's  not like a passing fad. I took high school level classes. I took AP level high school  classes. I took college courses. I started reading textbooks that PhDs read and just  went deep into biology. It was one of my most favorite things that I was doing. And effectively,  I started speaking to all the biology people that I knew of. And effectively, biology became  the muse for me. Whenever I get stuck with any technical problem, I know that biology,  which is evolution at play. Evolution is probably one of the only, if not the only, algorithm  that can create order despite the existence of disorder. And the second law of thermodynamics  says that entropy can only increase. In a world where entropy is only increasing, how  do we have order structures like organisms? And that's because evolution is the fundamental  pattern at play at every level that reinforces certain patterns that have resonance across  space and time. And those patterns get reinforced and reinforced over three and a half billion  years. It's insane. It's one of the most beautiful things. And it is an infinite space. It's  one of the most complicated algorithms. It's one of the ones that work the best. So I never  get stuck with a technical problem. I just look at biology because I know biology is  solid, very elegant. Human beings are incapable of coming up with a truly innovative thought.  Everything that we come up with is analogous to something that already exists, either within  us or outside of us. So having access to biology as a central knowledge source is one of the  most powerful things to have. It's almost like a co-foundation. I kind of, by the sound  of it, I can get a sense of impact. So there's another thing, which is teaching myself biology  from, literally from now on. I do not know all of the terminology and the semantic words  to be able to talk to people, but I have them if people don't understand biology. My visualization  is spatial. I can close my eyes and see the molecules changing shape because of the type  of water. These are the protein structures and the protein structures taking a shape  and it's that shape that makes them function. I can, I close my eyes and I am able to visualize  things. I'm not able to remember the exact names of things. That was another massive,  massive achievement, I would say. I'm really, really proud of myself for doing that because  it has been one of the most, one of the things I'm most thankful for.  So, as I was deep in biology, thinking about how the neuroscience, the brain works, how  the Bernoulli case areas, the propagation, all of them relate across the language, GPT-3  launched. When GPT-3 launched, I was amazed. And, and we started digging deep to understand  what was happening. And, when I understood what was at a high level happening in transformers,  I could see the similarity of how the Bernoulli case area and the propagation area are crossing.  Admittedly, the brain does things a lot more elegantly and efficiently and transformers  is a more brute force approach, but it is still beautiful. It's different from anything  I've ever seen. And, I knew that AI was the space that I was going to contribute in. You  know how you sometimes know things without really knowing why, but you know that there  is a permanency to it because it's kind of like the universe flows through you and for  whatever reason the universe has chosen you to flow through on that front. It literally  felt like that. Like I was helpless. So, the first thing that I wanted to build was  a personal knowledge management app. I wanted to build it immediately. I also wanted to  become an engineer. As a product manager, it always bothered me that without engineers  and designers, the people who are actually doing things, I'm not going to achieve anything.  That distance always bothered me. I wanted to be an engineer, but I never really worked  on that. When AI and all of this resonated, I realized that this is what I want to do.  I want to build this company and at the same time I want to become an engineer and I want  to do that immediately. So, picture this. I am living in the US. I have a job at Facebook.  $300,000 and I think any rational move would have been to just stay there and do this on  the side, but my brain cannot do two complex things. I knew that and I tried picking up  an entrepreneurial residence which I got, but even that I realized I was not going to  be able to spend only 50% of my time with them. It was just going to creep into more  and more and more and I wanted to spend all of my time on this. So, I took the decision  to move back to India because the HMB is not particularly supportive of that. Even though  I had time on it, even though I had a company that was paying me, wanting me to come on  this and all of those things holding true, I still decided to move back. I didn't tell  anybody because everybody would tell me how stupid I was and honestly it was kind of stupid,  but something I don't regret even for a single day.  This was at the age of 30. I was 30. As I was saying, most things in my life just happen.  But I decided to move back. I didn't tell anybody. I just landed and surprised everybody  that I didn't really have an option but to accept it and immediately moved to Bangalore  and of course started picking up Cypress. Cypress was a management app that I was talking  about and within the two years that I was building it, I built it, I sent it up to about  six people and within two years, I realized it was a target and I shut it down.  Again, shutting the company down was a big learning experience. You try to hold on to  something for as long as possible because you feel the weight of all of your decisions.  You don't want to easily be pulled off. So, you hold on to things for way longer. Also,  you think what you're building is incredibly cool and the world should accept it just because  it is cool. I believe it is a realization that every founder needs to go through. The  universe does not care about you. The universe just is your emotion. The jealousy, the anger,  the frustration, all of those are the colors that you add into the universe.  It is a big learning experience.  You know these things but the experience of actually going through it, that knowledge  is now being put into every cell. Every thought you have, every idea you have now has that  thought embedded into it. But, a really positive thing that came out of those two years, I  became a back-end engineer. I used to go to work every day at 8 a.m. and work and learn  till 10 p.m. every day. During that time, I taught myself artificial intelligence, I  taught myself programming, I need to learn things on the level of mathematics. So, I  spent time on that. I became a good back-end engineer.  Those were great days. I worked so hard. I used to show up every day and learn. I created  a curriculum for myself. I kept myself accountable to it. I followed through on. It was a difficult  period. I went from earning $300,000 to not earning anything. I am not a great saver.  Most of my savings were gone. Whatever was left, I used it to keep making payments for  my student loan. So, I didn't really make any money. It did not matter. I had one of  the greatest times. For the next two years, I would say, I immersed myself in programming,  immersed myself in artificial intelligence, language, linguistics, set theory, all of  these things that were going to be very useful for what I was going to do in the future.  So, that was an incredible experience. I learned so much. I became a back-end engineer from  there. I feel like starting a company is also an accomplishment. You tend to hold on to  things for very, very long. I would rather be wrong than move forward. Anyway, so that  was another thing that I am very proud of. I taught myself computer science from ground  up by myself, not a teacher. I taught myself. I am a self-taught back-end engineer.  Thank you.  So, this was just a back-end engineer. I realized in a year or so, I am going to actually  show things. So, to learn front-end, I started working in a company. I was looking for a  job and I don't want to be a product manager anymore. That was my past. I identified as  an engineer because that's what I think is most creative. The act of creation is important  for me. Technical complexity is beautiful. I like thinking on both sides. The only job  I am currently aware of is product management. So, I found a very cool job as the founding  engineer of a company called Reflex, which is a text-to-animation company. Now, this  is a company that Reflex founded about one and a half years ago and the thesis was that  game engines, you can use to simulate physics and you can put characters in there, get them  to move and interact with each other, use that to create good quality animations, but  low-code. So, as a founding engineer, I worked on every part of it, right from the Unity  game engine to deploying the Unity engine into the cloud, into the production, building  the front-end, building authentication, building credits and payments, building a very intricate  and complicated video transcription, video transcoding pipeline. What you are recording  on the screen, you are literally just recording the screen and then translating it and cutting  it, cropping it and that turned out to be way harder than we thought and I put that  entire pipeline in place. So, that experience made me a full-setter. I did my AI parts of  things and a little bit of the game engine side of things and then once we bought a dedicated  game engine, a game developer, I told the founder, look, I am going to take a little  longer to be able to execute on things, but I will be way cheaper than anything that you  can get from any price that you pay for a full-time developer and I will get things  done. And through that, I took longer time. Again, I worked my ass off. It was incredible,  the amount of learning. I learned how to build. I basically learned JavaScript and React from  the founder. How the DOM is shadowed and all of those things. I don't learn something  in isolation. I learn it integratively. So, ideas from there, I apply in other areas also  which you will see in just a bit. That allowed me to become a full-stack engineer. I was  so proud of myself because finally, anything that I could dream up, I could build. So,  this was like a big achievement, I would say. Going from just a product manager for a lab  who hadn't really written any code to a full-stack engineer who was able to write complicated  code. That was a big, big job. So then, after doing this, the next idea came to me. I knew  the next idea was going to come to me. I didn't need to push it, I didn't need to force it  because it was important for me to feel the passion for what I was doing. You can't just  do something because the money is there. I was interested in Steam very quickly. So,  I knew this about myself. So, I purposely waited for the right thing to happen. And  it came in the form of a bunch of students who, you know, one of the most elite universities  in India, reaching out to me, asking me to help mentor them on a product capstone project  that they were working on. They wanted to be product managers and they were working  on a capstone project. So, they asked me for help. I gladly said yes. And in interacting  with them, I realized that there's a deep empathy with the problems they're facing.  These people want access to opportunities. But they're gated from opportunities because  their resume does not have the right statements. It does not have the right big name brands,  the big name colleges and all of that in there. They don't know the right people because  they're completely cut off. Think of this as the long tail of talent. And this long  tail is a massive number and they're severely underrepresented. Their resume acts as a gatekeeper.  Even if they get past the resume and they get an interview, they don't know how to prepare  for interviews. They don't have access to people who can help train them on interviews.  So, the first manifestation of what would be useful for them was a mock agent that would  help them prepare for interviews. This was really well received. Now, this is a problem  that I deeply empathize with because I'm a self-taught engineer and I also found it really  hard to get jobs. On top of that, I told you how the background that I come from, we come  from very humble beginnings and people right outside my family circle, they are very similar.  They're all struggling for jobs and these people, they're not like, I want to start  the next Google or something. They want a good job that pays them, that treats them  with dignity so they can get started and move on with their lives, get married, have kids,  have families and all of those things. But none of them, they're not able to do these  things because the kind of jobs they have access to is terrible. Really terrible. They  are doing menial labor. So, anyway, that is the coming of that idea and being patient  and waiting for that idea to come is also something I'm proud of because everybody  around me was just telling me, bro, you're like so slow. Everybody is moving fast. Everybody  is going to like overtake you. Why are you so slow? Why are you so slow? Keep building,  keep building, raise money. It was really hard to justify my way of doing things as  a CEO. That actually led to the next thing that I think is a really cool thing that I'm  proud of. So, from there, I built like interview agents and these interview agents, initially  I tried to play with some of the existing agent framework like BlankFeed, BlankGain,  all those things and very quickly I just did not like it. I don't like frameworks in general  but some frameworks like React are useful. In the case of AI, I think any framework is  pointless because these are the early days of AI and you want to learn the thing, not  a thing that is built on top of a thing. So, very early I shunned agent-based frameworks.  I was building everything with my own hands and through five different re-architectures,  I built a completely event-driven agent architectural system that has incredible flexibility for  the kind of use cases that I'm thinking about. On top of that, I built a conversational operating  system that allows you to do a Monte Carlo tree rollout in the conversational space.  The fact that I built an entire agentic architecture framework by myself that's actually able to  go to production and do really interesting things and has great flexibility, I think  that's a massive achievement that I'm so freaking proud of. None of the frameworks  want them to miss. By the way, I'm sure this is not a fundamentally new idea. I'm sure  somebody somewhere is hacking away at something like this. But the fact that through first  principles, through observing physics and how the real world works and how time, everybody's  time is different. That is the idea that I actually pulled from general theory of relativity  which is that every being is kind of on some timeline. Because we're moving relatively  slow compared to the speed of light, our timelines just happen in a second. If we were moving  much faster, our timelines would be completely different. So bringing this idea into the  agentic space to build truly autonomous agents where there's no humans going in and writing  prompts and telling you how to rate things and all that. It is autonomous. Even the rating  system is autonomous. That's what this agentic architecture is. Truly autonomous agents.  That's another thing that I'm incredibly proud of.